Have you ever wondered what it would be like to change your career and pursue something completely different? That's
what I did in 2020, when I left my job as an earthmoving equipment technician and enrolled for an Information Technology
degree at the University of South Africa (UNISA). It was a bold move, but it was also one of the best decisions I ever
made. In this blog post, I will share with you my journey of how I became an IT graduate in three years, and what I
learned along the way.

### From Drilling to Coding

I had been working as an earthmoving equipment technician for about eight years, specializing in surface drilling rigs.
These are large machines that drill holes into the ground for explosives to break down the surface. It was a challenging
and rewarding career, and I enjoyed working with the machines and the people. But it also had its drawbacks. I had to
spend long months away from my family, and the work environment was very demanding and physical. I often had to work
alone, in remote and harsh conditions.

In June 2020, I decided to quit my job and start a new chapter in my life. I had always been fascinated by IT and wanted
to learn more about it. I thought it would be a great opportunity to develop new skills and explore new possibilities. I
applied for a three-year IT qualification at [UNISA](https://www.unisa.ac.za), one of the largest distance learning
institutions in Africa. I was
accepted and enrolled for the second semester in July.

### The First Year: Learning the Basics

The first year was a steep learning curve for me. I had to adjust to a new way of learning and studying, especially
during the COVID lockdown. I had to rely on online resources, and online material to guide me. I
had to manage my time and discipline myself to study regularly and complete the assignments. It was not easy, but it was
also very rewarding. I learned the basics of IT, such as programming, databases, networks, and web development. I
enjoyed the courses and the assignments, and I was happy with my grades. I felt like I was on the right track.

### The Second Year: Sharing and Exploring

The second year was more exciting and fun for me. I decided to share my knowledge and experience with other students who
were struggling with the same subjects I had taken. I became a tutor and a mentor, and I made some good friends along
the way. I found it very satisfying to help others and to improve my own understanding of the topics. I also expanded my
horizons and explored some courses outside of IT, such as business management, marketing and tourism. I wanted to
broaden my perspective and learn new skills that could complement my IT knowledge. Oh and most of my students received distinctions
in all the modules I tutored them on.

### The Third Year: Aiming High and Achieving

The third year was the most stressful but also the most rewarding year for me. I had a clear goal in mind: to get into a
postgraduate programme that required a 70% pass rate in my final year. I knew it was not going to be easy, but I was
ready for the challenge. The exams were tough, they covered everything from the first year to the last. I studied hard,
I practiced a lot, and I gave it my best shot. When December came and the results were out, I was overjoyed. I had
passed all but one module with 75% or more. I had done it. I was a graduate.

### The Next Step: Growing and Learning

But graduating was not the end of my journey. It was only the beginning. As soon as I got my degree, I felt a new surge
of curiosity and ambition. I wondered what else I could do, how far I could go, what new things I could learn. I
realized that being an academic was not just about getting a qualification, it was about growing as a person and as a
professional. And that's what I intend to do for the foreseeable future.

This is my story of how I switched careers and became an IT graduate in three years. It was not easy, but it was worth
it. And if you are thinking of doing something similar, or if you are just curious about IT, feel free to ask me
anything in the comments section below. I would love to hear from you and share some tips and advice.
